---
layout: post
title: Values
---
Here are a list of values that come to mind at times in my life where I've been the happiest in some form or another: Accomplishment, Achievement, Affection, Ambition, Close relationships, Compassion, Competence, Confidence, Creativity, Credibility, Decisiveness, Enthusiasm, Excitement, Friendships, Growth, Helping others, Honesty, Inner harmony, Insight, Inspiration, Location, Meaningful work, Music, Nature, Peace, Personal development, Reputation, Romance, Serenity, Stability, Tranquility, Will-power, Wisdom. In general, I try to live up to these values (4/5) because they are standards that I wish to be held to and wish for others to reciprocate (for those actionable values).

One value that is very important to me is inspiration. I believe inspiration is an extremely important value for a person to possess, and I think it is a fairly difficult one to hold on to in times of stress or despair. I have struggled with feeling inspired a lot of my life, so always really treasure moments when I feel inspiration, and look for ways I can inspire other people. Finally, I think that inspiration is closely linked to motivation - which has also been a tough value for me to hold on to - and motivation is so important for success, but more importantly, overall happiness on a day-to-day level.

The last topic that someone asked for my advice on was regarding whether they should pursue a bootcamp like DBC. This topic is related to meaningful work, which I think is extremely important, and given my knowledge of my experience so far, I honestly explained all that I could about the various programs and referred them to Code Academy since I have found it the most enjoyable learning resource outside of the DBC materials. I was hoping to enable them to make an informed decision about whether they would enjoy a programming bootcamp.

I am happy when I think about my values, although sometimes I wish I cared more about things such as prestige and eventual income mainly because I think it may help with my motivation. I think my values of insight and compassion may help mediate stereotype threat if I feel it because I could understand what is making a person act a certain way that I recognize as stereotype threat.

I think the value that I have to work on the most to be successful at DBC is inspiration because I know that if I am able to think of an inspiring project or observe inspiring people in the programming world, that it would help me become more motivated. Since I am very self-aware of moments when I feel lacking in motivation and inspiration, I will need to be able to snap myself out of it and either let it pass or search for sources of inspiration in the community.
