---
layout: post
title: Thinking Style
---

My thinking style according to the 'Gregorc Thinking Style' theory is 'Abstract Random' which, although fairly accurate, I do not think fully encompasses my thinking style. I am definitely a listener and believe that establishing healthy relationships and connections with others are the best ways to work efficiently with other people; however, I would describe myself as an introvert which contradicts the explanation that I would learn best in a setting with group activities. I'm not really sure how I can apply what I have read about my thinking style to my ability to learn because of this, although I do really appreciate the chance to work in a personalized environment which could be helpful knowledge to have in mind throughout my learning process.

My biggest struggles so far in Phase 0 have been - 1. trying not to beat myself up for forgetting Ruby that I have already learned in the past and 2. making myself motivated to do the written exercises, which although I always find ultimately rewarding, I often feel resistance since they are not always direct learning opportunities. I think my first struggle is related to the way I learn because sometimes I have a difficult time forcing myself to absorb material in a way that will ensure that I remember it in the future, or will be able to apply it, and instead, use more trial-and-error methods that don't involve a lot of review. Sometimes I think this struggle is related to not knowing how to properly solidify new information in my brain more than feeling too lazy to do this. I think a good solution to this issue will be to create a list of possible ways to compartmentalize information immediately after I learn it, and then figure out which one works best. I am less concerned about the second struggle because I am very self-aware, and after failing in various areas of my life due to lack of motivation, I have developed a sense of when I need to remotivate myself in some way.

I think one great way to broaden my thinking and learning styles will be to do more activities pulling from other thinking styles to see if any other techniques could potentially work for me. I believe recently I have come pretty far in regards to growth vs. fixed mindset, and try to remind myself of the benefits of focusing on having a growth mindset if I ever feel discouraged throughout the program. I think this will get more difficult in stressful times during the intensive part of the bootcamp, so I will have to constantly remind myself that nothing is impossible in the field of learning and that learning is for the most part, proportionate to the effort you put in, and not an inherent level of intellect.
