---
layout: post
title: Asking Good Questions
---
I am not a big question asker. This is definitely an area I need to improve in, since the programming community seems to be very question-oriented. I think most of the time, I would rather struggle with the answer myself until I have absolutely no possible solution, and then research the exact problem I am having - which is usually answered somewhere on Stack Overflow. So, although I do not have a lot of direct experience writing good questions, I feel able to quickly recognize good or bad questions due to spending a lot of time researching very specific solutions to questions that I would like answered.

I think specificity is the cornerstone of asking a good question, and most importantly, specificity in the title. A lot of the time I will research titles very quickly until I find one matching my exact query. Noting the language the question is referring to in the title is also crucial. As for the body of the question, as a newcomer to programming, I find the most useful answers to have a quick excerpt regarding the issue they are having and then a simple code snippet that does not require too much external information or references. Sometimes while researching on Stack Overflow, I have been overwhelemd by the code excerpts that people post in their question, and end up leaving to another page simply because I think the question involves a more complex topic than the one I am having problems with. This may be unrelatable since I am new to programming, but I think that good questions should avoid being overly complex or lofty because that makes them easier to answer (if they are still specific enough).

Well, that's it for my musings on how to write a good question (from a non question-asker's perspective). Feel free to tweet at me (@annamhairi) if you have any feedback or responses! Happy question asking!